FEP-0007: Consistent language across FreeCAD (#20)
FreeCAD/FreeCAD-Enhancement-Proposals: FEPs/FEP-0007-consistent-language/README.md

  docs](https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/i18n-source-translation.html#add-comments-for-translators).
- Use **third-person present tense** in tooltips: `Creates`, `Adds`, `Inserts`. Write complete
  sentences where appropriate.
- Tooltips should describe the action and required context. E.g., `Adds a new sketch to the active
body`, not just "Add sketch".
- Avoid step-by-step instructions in tooltips. Focus on outcome: `Inserts a dimension for the
selected lines`, not "Select one or more lines…".
- Avoid stating the obvious: "If checked by the user, the view is updated automatically", use
  `Updates view automatically`.
- Don't address the user directly: say what the command does, not "Click this button…".
- Avoid direct source-code references in the UI, instead of "This feature only works with PartDesign
  bodies" use `This feature only works with Part Design bodies`

### UI Text Style

Use **Title Case** only for command names, buttons, menu items, and group titles. All other text
should use normal **sentence case**.

**Do not use periods** on short UI elements like buttons or labels. Use them only in full-sentence
tooltips or descriptive text.

> **Use ellipsis (…)** at the end of menu items or commands that require user input. Do not use three
> periods "..." instead of the ellipsis character `…` for consistency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Use ellipsis (…)** at the end of menu items or commands that require further user input or are phrased to have (or continue with) multiple options, e.g. `Export As…` (export as what? .step, .stl, etc.). Do not use three periods "..." instead of the ellipsis character `…` for consistency and do not place a space in front or after the ellipsis.
```

Reviewer 2: For me it is still unclear why the menu item for the Addon manager does not get ellipsis. The Addon manager requires further user input before anything happens. In that sense there is no difference from `Save as...`.

Author: What question would you ask for Addon Manager? For Save As... The question is quite clear, save as what?

Reviewer 3: We could choose to change to "Manage addons…" to avoid the problem.

Author: We could - however "Manage Addons" is also not a good example to follow, imho. While for "Install addon..." the question is clear for me "Which addon you want to install?" for manage however, it is not that clear imho. We of course can ask "which addons you want to manage?" But as user does not need to provide that specific information right away (because it is used to manage all addons anyway) the dots are not meaningful in such context. 

Stuff like this will show up from time to time - ideally we should write the guidelines in a way that would cover such case. Dots should be placed in situations where the text can be filled in with additional information and it still would make sense. For example:

- Save As ... -> based on (usually immediate) user input we can Save As foo.FCStd, or Save As bar.FCStd, or something.step, etc...
- Export As ... -> based on user input we can Export As PDF, or Export As DWG, etc..
- Set Face Color ... -> based on user input we can Set Face Color To Red, or Set Face Color To Green, ...

For entries that you cannot append such additional information it should not have the ellipsis. So in that context - Install Addon... - because you can fill up the dots with `Install Addon: Fasteners` - but only if the result of activating such action would be to open small dialog where you basically can only pick the addon.

Reviewer: Maybe we shoud limit the use of ellipsis in general - only add it if it is needed where it abbreviates something. Like `Save As...` or `Export As...`. Simple commands like Transform, Box, Primitive or even Set Element Colors would not need ellipsis IMO.

Author: ```suggestion
**Use ellipsis (…)** at the end of menu items or commands should be used only when action requires further user input that can be then used in place of ellipsis to finish the label. For example, `Export as …` will ask about extension to export and can then, selected extension can be used to finish the label: `Export as PDF`. Do not use ellipsis only because action opens additional dialog: `Unit Converter…` is an example of bad ellipsis use because there is no user input that can be used to finish that label.  

**When using ellipsis (…)** do not use three periods "..." instead of the ellipsis character `…` for consistency.
```

Maybe something like that would be good? @tigert @maxwxyz @Roy-043?

Reviewer 4: @kadet1090 you accidentally added a space, `s/Export as …/Export as…`

Author: The version from Max: https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-Enhancement-Proposals/pull/20#discussion_r2231786961 is better anyway - let's focus on content so if it makes it clear when we should use ellipsis or not.

> **Use ellipsis (…)** at the end of menu items or commands that require user input. Do not use three
> periods "..." instead of the ellipsis character `…` for consistency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Only use ellipsis (…)** at the end of menu items or commands when the action requires further 
user input which is abbreviated by the ellipsis. For example, `Export As…` will ask about the 
extension to export (e.g. "Export as PDF"). Do not use ellipsis only because the action opens an 
additional dialog: "Unit Converter…" is an example of bad ellipsis use because there is no user input that can
be used to finish the name of that label. 

**When using ellipsis (…)** do not use three periods "..." instead of the ellipsis character `…` for
consistency and do not place a space in front or after the ellipsis. Do not use a single ellipsis as command
or button text.
```

- the first word of the title or heading, even if it is a minor word such as "The" or "A"
- major words, including the second part of hyphenated major words (e.g., "Self-Report", not
  "Self-report")
- words of four letters or more (e.g., "With", "Between", "From")
- capitalize the last word in the label, regardless of the part of speech.

Lowercase only minor words that are three letters or fewer:

- short conjunctions (e.g., and, as, but, for, if, nor, or, so, yet)
- articles (a, an, the)
- short prepositions (e.g., as, at, by, for, in, of, off, on, per, to, up, via)

More information on APA guidelines for [Title
Case](https://apastyle.apa.org/style-grammar-guidelines/capitalization/title-case) and [Sentence
case](https://apastyle.apa.org/style-grammar-guidelines/capitalization/sentence-case).

### Examples

- Tooltip: `Constrains new geometry automatically. It is recommended to leave it enabled for most
workflows.` - Complete sentences end with a period.
- Hint: `Toggles the visibility of the active sketch` - No period at the end
- Command: `New File` - This is just a short label. A tooltip for that command button would be
  "Creates a new file".

> - Command: `Save As…` - The function requires user input to function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Command: `Save As…` - Further user input is needed as what file type it should be saved.
```

should use normal **sentence case**.

**Do not use periods** on short UI elements like buttons or labels. Use them only in full-sentence
tooltips or descriptive text.

**Use ellipsis (…)** at the end of menu items or commands that require user input. Do not use three
periods "..." instead of the ellipsis character `…` for consistency.

Do not put a colon or space at the end of labels that are followed by required user input (e.g.
QLabel for input box, button, dropdown, or checkbox) or headers. Instead of "X direction: " write `X
direction`

### How to Implement Title Case

In title case, capitalize the following words:

- the first word of the title or heading, even if it is a minor word such as "The" or "A"
- major words, including the second part of hyphenated major words (e.g., "Self-Report", not
  "Self-report")
- words of four letters or more (e.g., "With", "Between", "From")
- capitalize the last word in the label, regardless of the part of speech.

Lowercase only minor words that are three letters or fewer:

- short conjunctions (e.g., and, as, but, for, if, nor, or, so, yet)
- articles (a, an, the)

> - short prepositions (e.g., as, at, by, for, in, of, off, on, per, to, up, via)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- short prepositions (e.g., as, at, by, for, in, of, off, on, per, to, up, via)

More information on APA guidelines for [Title Case](https://apastyle.apa.org/style-grammar-guidelines/capitalization/title-case) and [Sentence case](https://apastyle.apa.org/style-grammar-guidelines/capitalization/sentence-case).
```
